HOME PAGE

LOGO

ONLINE BOOKING ICON 

Embody Healthcare Osteopathy was established in Greensborough in 2005 by osteopath Kathryn Williams and has been assisting the community for nearly 20 years. We have recently moved to an inviting new premises in Bolton Street, Eltham. At Embody Healthcare we have five experienced osteopaths offering treatment for the whole family, from newborns to the elderly.

Osteopaths treat a wide range of conditions using a range of techniques including soft tissue massage and stretching, techniques to improve joint mobility, dry needling, taping and gentle techniques to improve systemic function such as breathing, digestion, circulation and functioning of the pelvic organs and central nervous system. 

Osteopathic treatment focuses on the whole body to balance and support the body’s natural healing processes. Your osteopath may address other regions of the body that may be impacting your injury, to find the true cause of your condition. 

Osteopaths also prescribe exercise programs and work in a team with GPs and other allied health practitioners. You do not need a referral from a GP to see an osteopath. 
Our osteopaths have completed a five-year University degree, are registered with AHPRA and Osteopathy Australia, and are committed to furthering their knowledge by undertaking a minimum of 25 hours of Continuing Professional Development studies per year, including studies in dry needling, taping, paediatrics, pregnancy, sports rehabilitation, vertigo and Biodynamics in the Cranial Field.

Embody Healthcare Osteopathy also stocks products such as pillows, foam rollers, Smooth and Spikey massage balls, Fisiocrem, heat/ice packs, exercise resistance bands and sports tape.

(new page?) WHAT DO OSTEOPATHS TREAT?

(ICONS)
SPORTS INJURIES 
Osteopaths may help to aid in the recovery of common sporting injuries including sprains and strains involving the shoulder, elbow, hip, knee, foot and ankle. Eg bursitis, muscle tears, ankle sprains, injuries of the meniscus, rotator cuff strain, tennis and golfers elbow.

HEADACHES AND MIGRAINES
Osteopaths will diagnose the cause of your headaches and migraines, which may be due to neck, jaw or shoulder strain, hormonal imbalance or a result of dietary triggers. Osteopaths can also treat vertigo which may be caused by neck strain, and can assess for BPPV.



NECK AND BACK PAIN
Osteopaths may help to manage various causes of neck and back pain, including postural strain and spinal strains, whiplash, osteoarthritis, degenerative disc disease, scoliosis, sciatica, fibromyalgia, and osteoporosis. Our gentle approach makes osteopathy a suitable treatment option for the elderly or those suffering from auto-immune disorders.

PRE- AND POST-NATAL AND WOMEN’S HEALTH
Osteopaths can help prepare the pregnant woman for childbirth, and manage conditions such as back and neck strain and pelvic girdle pain during pregnancy. We can also aid in post-partum recovery. Osteopaths may also assist in management of period pain, polycystic ovarian syndrome and endometriosis.

BABIES AND CHILDREN
Osteopathic techniques are very gentle which makes it suitable for treatment of newborns, toddlers, children and adolescents. Osteopathy may assist in management of colic and unsettled babies, feeding issues and tongue tie, mild developmental delay, torticollis, scoliosis, Osgood Schlatters,  and Severs.


(new page) OUR TEAM
(profiles)
Kathryn Williams
Kathryn Williams graduated as an Osteopath from RMIT University in 1998.  Kathryn then spent the next four years working in Osteopathic clinics in Sydney, Melbourne and country Victoria learning from experienced Osteopaths and treating a wide range of conditions in varied groups of people.
Kathryn then settled in Melbourne and drawing on her previous years of experience and knowledge set about establishing Embody Healthcare in Greensborough.  She opened the clinic in October 2002 and as the clinic has grown Kathryn has welcomed new Osteopaths and staff to her team.
Kathryn now enjoys balancing part-time work with her role as a mum.

Kristy Biermans
Kristy qualified as an osteopath in 1998 from RMIT University.  She has worked in Sydney, Ireland and The Netherlands and joined Embody Healthcare Osteopathy in 2006. She has completed further studies in Biodynamic Osteopathy in the Cranial Field (Phases 1 to 9), dry needling, paediatrics and pregnancy, scoliosis, sports taping, vertigo and tendinopathy rehabilitation as part of her Continuing Professional Development. 
As a parent herself, Kristy has an interest in treating babies, children and adolescents, as well as in pregnancy and women’s health, including perimenopause. Kristy enjoys the gym and fitness classes in her spare time,  and realises the importance of including exercise prescription in a patient’s treatment plan to ensure full recovery and further injury prevention.
Jessica Thompson
Jessica graduated from RMIT University in 2006 and joined the team at Embody Healthcare shortly after. 
Jessica is a caring and thoughtful osteopath who loves really getting to know her clients so that she can tailor a treatment plan that suits the individual, their lifestyle and their needs. She enjoys treating a wide age range of clients from children to the elderly and years of experience make her skilled in the treatment and management of a range of musculoskeletal conditions.
Jessica continues to improve her knowledge and skills in the profession by undertaking further education to stay up to date with evidence-based practice.  She is qualified in dry needling. Being a mum of 3 beautiful daughters has also provided a wealth of knowledge around perinatal and paediatric healthcare.
Jasmine Laird
Jasmine graduated in 2019 from RMIT University with a Bachelor of Health Sciences and a Bachelor of Applied Science (Osteopathy). During her time studying and treating as an osteopath she has developed a passion for helping people, and community health and wellbeing. 
 
Jasmine enjoys treating a variety of ages and conditions by employing patient centred care. She will ensure that she discusses with you any conditions/injuries, treatments, exercise and management, and lifestyle changes. 
 
In her spare time you can find Jasmine training for a multitude of sports and activities. She has been in many teams and can understand the frustrations of injuries. This helps her to develop proactive movement-based treatment plans so her patients can enjoy a pain-free lifestyle and continue enjoying all their activities. 




Amanda Bell
Amanda graduated in 2013 from RMIT University with a Bachelor of Applied science (Complementary Medicine) and a Masters of Osteopathy. Since graduating Amanda has worked in clinics throughout Melbourne’s eastern and western suburbs.
Amanda enjoys treating a vast array of ages and conditions by applying a holistic approach that not only focuses on the site of pain but also ensures that the entire body is functioning optimally to provide the body the best opportunity for healing. To further the quality of patient care, Amanda has undertaken additional courses in the treatment of pregnant and paediatric patients as well as Clinical Pilates, Dry Needling, Rocktaping and Cupping. Sports rehab is another area where Amanda has interest, having worked with many athletes in particular Melbourne Victory’s Women’s Soccer team to aid in their recovery and rehabilitation.
In her spare time Amanda enjoys playing netball with friends and spending time with her family and her Scottish terroir Hamish. Amanda is registered with the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency and is a member of the Australian Osteopathic Association.
Heather Grossmith
Heather is currently on leave.

Reception staff
Our friendly receptionists include Faye, Sherrie, Steph and Annie.


(new page) CONTACT

Embody Healthcare Osteopathy
3/127 Bolton St
Eltham VIC 3095

Telephone: (03) 9434 1874
Fax: (03) 9957 8148
Email: info@embodyhealthcare.com.au

MAP

OPENING HOURS
Monday	9:30am - 6:30pm
Tuesday	9:30am - 6:30pm
Wednesday	9:30am - 6:30pm
Thursday	9:45am - 6:15pm
Friday		9:00am - 2:15pm
Saturday	8:30am - 1:00pm
Sunday	Closed

ONLINE BOOKING ICON
